= Messiah

Messiah enables using Ruby testing tools for integration testing with platforms that support CGI. Notably, PHP.

== Installation

  gem install messiah

== Configuration: RSpec

In the spec_helper.rb file, configure Messiah. Specifically, the app root and the command used to execute your app via CGI. Once the app is configured, include Messiah into RSpec.

  Messiah.configure do
    root File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), 'fixtures', 'www')
    command 'php-cgi -d cgi.force_redirect=0'
  end

  Spec::Runner.configure do |config|
    Messiah.rspec(config)
  end

== Configuration: Cucumber

You configure Messiah in the env.rb file.

  Messiah.configure do
    root File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), '..', '..', 'spec', 'fixtures', 'www')
    command 'php-cgi -d cgi.force_redirect=0'
  end

  Messiah.cucumber(self)

== Other Configuration Options

+test_root+ is the directory containing the test suite being run. This is passed to your application through an HTTP header. This can be used to source mocks from the fixtures directory.
+app_root+ is the directory that actually contains your application.
+host+ is the hostname that should be used in the requests.
+script+ is the name of the script all requests should be sent through. This is useful if your app uses PATH_INFO
+database+ is a hash containing the ActiveRecord connection parameters

Any of the options may be set simply:

  Messiah.host = 'ahost.example.local'

The configuration values are automatically reset back to their original configured state prior to every test. This is useful if you need to test different hosts individually.

== Database Support and a Warning

Messiah will, by default, delete all data in the configured test database. Don't point it at your development database. This is to be sure the database is always starting with a known blank slate.

The database support is functional but still has rough edges. It uses Dr. Nic's Magic Models gem for generating ActiveRecord models from your schema at runtime. factory_girl is the factory library used. Additional documentation is coming on the database support.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Rich Cavanaugh. See LICENSE for details.

